We are going to look at
this idea of a slice, and
the reason I bring up in the beginning,
this is the only kind of brand new
concept that we're talking about.
Everything else is,
I guess the RTK query stuff at the end
is also a brand new concept, but
this is the true brand new concept, which
is an amalgamation of other concepts.
That I like this abstraction because
I have previously tried to build
my own form of this abstraction that
I have not liked nearly as much.
But it starts to show some of
the nice things that we get and
some of the thought process around how
you can create stuff with the patterns
in Redux that don't necessarily
always involve setting up five
different files to do the simplest
thing every single time, right?
And I think that is where Redux
got something of a bad rap.
And so these are patterns that you could
use today in your regular Redux app or
in Redux Toolkit app.
You can pick, this is like a buffet,
it's not like I have to go all in.
You can pick whatever you
want from this buffet and
it will work at whatever level of
granularity makes sense to you, right?
And that's why we're kinda looking in
this sense cuz it's all pick and choose,
you do not have to go all in at any point.
But let's look at what a slice is and
let's look at some of the practices around
that, cuz it's gonna give me a chance to
talk about mistakes that I have made in
the past and how you cannot be like me.
Or you can be like current me and
not like past me.
Nobody wants to be like past me.
Awesome, so,
we normally need something like,
we don't wanna write this in Gitkeep,
that's not a place to write things.
That's just a place to make sure
you have the folder already.
We'll make a new file called task,
tasks plural, slice,
which I'm just gonna love saying
repeatedly all day today.
I could have picked any other euphemism
to do something like that, but
here we are already.
And we're gonna make it happen.
And we need some data structure
to hold on to our tasks.
And this is one of the first places
where I tend to get bitten and yeah,
this is just a how do we structure our
state question more than it is a how
do I even Redux the question?
Briefly, we will look at
just the shape of a task,
a task is basically has id, has a title.
If we choose to go full Kanban board with
this, that will become important, but
otherwise it belongs to a user.
A user has many tasks.
So a basic relationship model that is
a little bit more than what we see in
the kind of basics, but
definitely something we often have
to deal with in our real code bases.
So, it is very tempting when coming up
with the shape of the initial state,
to be like, yooh, it's an array of tasks.
I got this, right, it'd be something like,
const initialState is an array.
Now there's a number of problems with
this, some of these will be easily solved,
all of them are easily solvable.
Which is TypeScript out of
the box does not know what
an empty array is in any way,
shape or form, right?
It's this could be anything and worse,
if we solve our second problem,
we make the first problem worse.
So, right now it thinks it's absolutely
anything, if we put it in an object,
it'll think it's absolutely nothing.
Lemme show you what I mean by that.
So if we said something like entities,
and that'll be an array.
Then it becomes an array of never,
because it's like, hey,
this is initially set as an array
of nothing, which means this object
must just hold on to an array of nothing
forever and ever and ever, right?
And that's not particularly great.
And it gets a little harder
to dynamically type it here.
So it makes sense if we're
gonna use TypeScript 2, and
this is probably a good thing to do in
general, what is the shape of our state?
And we want something we
can add to over time.
So I always have this inclination of,
why should I just start with an array?
And that's problematic for
a number of reasons.
If I need to hold on to anything else
like, is this list currently loading?
Is it pulling from
the server at this moment?
Do I wanna keep the actual fundamental
objects separate from the IDs so
I can iterate over an array of
strings to populate things versus have
an indexable object to get
the different objects?
Starting out with just the kind of, I only
need this, a lot of times gets you to
a place where as soon as you need the
second thing, you have to rework almost
all of your kind of, for
this at least part of your application.
And if you make it repeatedly
more than one place,
part of your application you have to
rework this over and over and over again.
So, one of the things that I would implore
you to do especially in a larger and
real code base, is to kind of start out
with an object that you can add keys to.
And there's a bunch of ways you could
do this, but we'll say our type of our
TaskState, Will have
this idea of entities,
which will be an array of,
in my case, those tasks, right?
And the nice part about doing it in a type
is that I can say what the array is, so
now when I just use the array in an
initial state and if I say that the whole
object is of this type, TypeScript
will figure all the rest of it out.
And again, this means that later
I can add additional keys.
The other reason for this is, the other
thing that is a lot of times really
tricky about state management in
Redux is if you have deeply nested
objects that immutability involves
a lot of spread operators.
That a lot of the tooling that comes with
Redux Toolkit has this library called
immer, right?
And immer lets you just pretend
that your state is mutable.
You push things onto arrays,
pop them off, right?
Just flip boolean values,
reassign strings, it's cool.
The only thing that you cannot do, really,
is flat out replace that object you
were given at the very beginning, right?
Cuz it's just gonna use this, right, try
to look at the changes to that object and
it just won't work.
So if you only gave yourself an array and
you ever come to the situation of I had
this array, I've made a new network
request of blog posts, tweets, items,
I wanna just swap it out.
If the array is your base level object,
you can't.
And by the time you're at that level
of working on whatever feature,
you are already several hours or
several days in, right?
And so,
I know that it seems a little much now,
but future you will thank you.
Could you call it tasks?
You absolutely could.
When you use combined reducer,
it's gonna be tasks.tasks, so, whatever.
The important part is,
I'm not here to argue about naming things,
the important part is that you
have something called out, right?
And you can switch what that data
structure looks like and how it's shaped
later, but having some way that you
have an object that you can add or
remove keys to,
to store additional information.
Cuz otherwise you'll end up finding
yourself making other reducers and
other slices and
stuff along those lines, and
there's no reason to start out
in that general direction.
So starting out with a shape for
your state that makes sense
will serve you in the future.
But now we have that.
And so,
now we can say that our initialState,
Which is a form of TasksState, plural?
Plural, even though that means I have to
say it more, it's still the right choice.
And that can start out as simply, And
now, if you look at the type of this one,
other than the fact that it's not used,
right, you can see that
it has the right type.
So now we can push task on it and nothing
else, so we get all the type safety.
Type safety is totally worth it
as long as you don't accidentally
opt yourself out of it.
And I will probably need this shape for
unit tests later, so I'll export it now.
So we've got that shape there, now what
we wanna do is just create a slice, so
we can kinda see the pieces in here.
And so with that, we can say createSlice
and pull that off of Redux Toolkit.
If you have Redux Toolkit, you have Redux.
This is a thing in Redux Toolkit,
but you can use them,
you can migrate them together,
it works out really great.
So we'll say that this is a tasksSlice.
And this takes an object.
And what this will do is we give it
a name, and this is just what it prefixes
all the actions with, so that when you
see in the dev tooling, cuz you be like,
I'm gonna call this action add.
And then later, two weeks now,
you're like, what is it even adding?
I don't even know.
So this gives you the ability
to namespace that right now.
We pass in the initialState and then
finally, it needs some level of reducers.
And reducers look a little bit different,
but
I don't think I can repeat this
enough in the very beginning.
This will just basically spit out stuff
you can normally use in a regular
Redux setup.
None of this, I will say it one more time,
this is all like a buffet, take the parts
that interests you, take the parts
that you can use today or tomorrow.
Keep your existing infrastructure, you
do not have to rewrite anything, right?
But you will get some niceties and
some conveniences, if you're like, hey,
new features moving forward,
awesome, right?
Existing stuff we keep,
especially if it's working,
sometimes rewriting stuff that
works is fraught with peril.
So we'll keep that in place here.
And then we create some actions, but
we don't have to make 17 other files.
Everything will live,
everything about this concept of a task,
I'll even lowercase the l
like a normal person.
And everything can live inside this
file and have one encapsulated place,
but it's all the same stuff that we'll
get under the hood no matter what,
again, with better TypeScript support.
So we will also then say stuff like
addTask and we'll just start out by
saying, And it looks like these
are almost like mini reducers.
Right, well, they'll take the state,
you can guess that the second
argument is an action.
But instead of writing a series of
conditionals or, I still don't know
the syntax for a switch statement, and
I at this point don't care to learn it.
But instead of worrying about these
things and all those pieces you
can basically say, have a bunch of methods
for the tasks that you expect to have.
And what's really cool about this is that
not only is this setting up your reducer,
but it's also creating the actions
that you can hand to dispatch
as well as the action creators and wiring
up all of the types in TypeScript for you.
So you will get it all for free.
Now, if you're like, you turn out
you don't like this abstraction,
you can actually take the two pieces
of createReducer and createActions.
I use createAction even when
I'm not using Redux, and
it will still wire up a lot of this for
you.
Let's look at it all together first.
So we have this in place, and let's
just grab one of these for a second and
just kinda look at what we get
at the end of the day here.
So we'll say test slice, and
this got a bunch of things.
Plural, And we'll say actions.
And you can see that for
every property that I put on the reducer,
you can see add and remove task.
Well, do you see add and remove task here?
For every action I put on the reducer,
it automatically creates
an action in the reducer for me.
And I can just have these, and these are
things I can pass into the reducer now and
it will all just work.
>> Is that with or without TypeScript?
>> Normally if you're using VS Code,
if you're writing JavaScript and
under the hood it's got types,
VS Code will be like,
yooh, here are the options for you, right?
It's not gonna yell at you
when you mess it up, but
the hints will be there for you.
So yeah, it's one of those things, even
if you're not a TypeScript shop-it-all,
having stuff with great TypeScript support
still benefits you in your day to day,
right?
And also, VS Code, if you have really
great JSDoc notation written above your
functions, you'll also get that.
However, I think that especially for
non libraries like in internal code,
most people do not do meticulous
JSDocs for their internal code.
So you tend not to have it as much.
So having some of the stuff kind of
ready to go is incredibly important.
And out of the box you saw they
had the autocomplete there,
it is automatically going to create a task
with the action type tasks/addTask, right?
So you automatically get those three or
four different files that you
would have made previously already
wired up for you and ready to go.
And that's, again,
incredibly kind of powerful piece in here.